RISE

Realtime Indiscrete Simulation Engine


...what does indiscrete mean?  It means RISE does not operate on a discrete
time grid.  Unlike most game engines, it does not work by iterating the
positions of each object every frame and checking for interactions.  Instead,
it schedules the interactions ahead of time for the exact time they will occur.
Most game engines that claim to be framerate-independent justify that claim by
integrating the velocity of their objects over the length of the frame, but
they still do collision checking once per frame, and so with low framerates
they exhibit many physics errors.  However, RISE is 100% framerate-
independent.*  That's because there are no frames except for rendering
purposes, and rendering does not affect the movement of the objects.  This
means that physics in RISE are always just as accurate as they were programmed
to be.  To put it another way, timing in most game engines is accurate to about
1/60th of a second; timing in RISE is accurate to about one microsecond.

Does that make it harder to program with RISE?  Slightly, because the movement
of objects must be described mathematically instead of by incrementing values
every frame.  However, you can still set periodic timers on your objects to
have them exhibit behavior once every fraction of a second, which you can use
if you wish to program your objects in a more discrete style.

===NOTICE===
This engine is under heavy development and its API may change without any
warnings.  Use at your own (in)discretion.
============


* Currently, this is not quite true, because realtime input is not implemented
and so input timing may change based on rendering framerate.  Eventually this
will be fixed, and at that time RISE will be truly 100% framerate-independent.


